My name is Elena Chistykova. I am a personal consultant and a business coach.
I am a member of the International Association of Cross-Cultural Management of Vienna, Austria.
I work with well-known training companies and training centers.
Today I will tell you about the laws of effective business relations.
You will be able to better understand yourself, establish effective interaction in the team,
and you will be able to successfully cope with complex communication tasks.
Business communication.
By business communication we mean any communication that is aimed at obtaining a specific business result.
This can be public speeches, presentations, negotiations or meetings.
It can be telephone communication with suppliers and customers.
It can be business interactions that take place at workplaces.
What is the essence of business communication and what makes it different from personal communication?
The fact is that the definition of business relations says that business communication is aimed at obtaining a specific business result.
Therefore, in the two main components of communication, informational and emotional,
the main attention is paid to the informational.
In business communication we always talk more about business, about something specific.
In personal communication, the goal of personal communication is communication itself, our relationship.
Most of the time we communicate at the emotional level.
A person feels comfortable when communication takes place at both levels.
Therefore, if we communicate only at the informational level, if we communicate dryly, without emotions,
it leads to burnout, the motivation of the staff decreases.
No one likes to communicate only about specific results.
Therefore, the question of ethics of business relations, the right regulation,
the right compromise between the result and the relations.
What to do? How to achieve this?
Secrets in effective techniques.
Therefore, today we will talk about the system tasks, the approach to business communication.
Therefore, today we will use a system approach.
We will talk about communication as a whole, about the laws of success,
about the points of vulnerability that can interfere with our effective communication.
We will talk about specific practical skills that will allow us to succeed
in complex business communications and public speeches.
If we approach business communication as a whole, we must consider the business communication strategy.
That is, how we build the goals of business communication and how we go to our specific business result.
There are three main strategies.
The first strategy is the strategy of the conqueror.
This is a strategy of war, where there are no two winners or two losers.
This is a strategy of a duel, when one person wins, and the other person loses.
The advantage of this strategy is that the winner gets the maximum business result.
All his goals are fulfilled and fulfilled 100%.
He is the master of the position, he is the master of the conquered territory.
However, the disadvantages are the same as in war.
Most often we become the masters of the conquered territory, if we come to it as a conqueror.
It is difficult to get some resources.
Therefore, the strategy of the conqueror is not always successful.
At the same time, it cannot be rejected.
It is good in cases when you use it once and further relations do not make sense.
Then it can be effective.
If you see that during business negotiations your partner communicates,
based on this strategy, you should accept it and be able to behave and interact with it.
Although it is not always effective.
The next strategy is the strategy of compromise.
In these cases, the interaction is more constructive.
Nobody burns the surface of the earth.
However, everyone goes for a compromise.
And the goals of both participants are not fulfilled 100%.
The conditions of compromise are always softer and more natural than the strategy of the conqueror.
You do not have to confront, you can discuss and do further business.
You can cooperate for a long time and fruitfully.
But the goals are not fulfilled.
You always have to sacrifice something.
It is not always convenient.
Because in business it is very difficult to choose what to sacrifice and what to do.
You always want to achieve the maximum result.
Therefore, the strategy of compromise seems to be the most profitable and correct.
We are inside the situation, we are immersed in it and do not see it from above.
If we take the strategy of unity, the strategy called win-win,
that is, to win and to win, this is the strategy of two participants who rise above the situation,
who unite their business goals, who achieve 100% results in both cases.
That is, the total percentage result is above all praises, it is 200% and more.
Why does this happen?
Of course, creativity, new ways of development, new ways of decision-making.
It is very important to try to bring any negotiations to the strategy of unity.
What are the disadvantages of the strategy of unity?
They require a lot of resources to clarify points of view, to unite your opinions, to unite your positions.
Therefore, effective communication skills are required in order to unite goals and find a common solution.
Skills are needed to clarify positions, as well as to find a creative solution that would suit both sides.
Today we will deal with all the elements of all three strategies.
We will talk about what to do when the strategy of the conqueror is set against you.
We will talk about how to effectively behave in the strategy of compromise, if it is imposed on you.
And we will talk about how to effectively communicate and apply the strategy of unity, the strategy of win-win.
The tactics of business communication.
We have already talked about the strategies of business communication.
This is a common approach to your business relations, both in negotiations, in everyday communication, and in public speech.
Now we will talk about tactics.
Tactics are specific tools for how to behave within your strategy.
You don't need to think that every tactic is effective for a certain strategy.
This is not the case.
You can use any tactic in any strategy and correctly build a pattern of your communication that will lead you to your business result.
Let's talk about specific tactics.
You see that there are two columns on the slide.
Indeed, one tactic is opposite to the other.
For example, the first line is a closed tactic and the second line is an open tactic.
What is it and how are they different?
We see, we even say, here is a closed person and here is an open person.
This is what it is.
The other thing is that we psychologically refer to more closed and more open types.
An effective communicator will specifically choose the right tactic, defined in this particular situation.
The most successful and winning.
When you use an open tactic, you are open-minded.
You provide the maximum of the necessary information to the interlocutor.
You answer all his questions.
You are happy to clarify the circumstances.
You reveal all the business and features of the specific situation that you are discussing.
In a closed tactic, this is hidden.
The maximum privacy of the information.
We see only the minimum of information.
The most public, the most open.
Usually, it is provided in the form of documents, so as not to say unnecessary.
You are minimally open to information.
This is immediately noticeable to others.
Therefore, this tactic is effective in the case when you feel an attack, feel pressure on you.
Then a closed tactic will allow you to focus and stay inside your information field.
An open tactic is effective in other cases and is considered more effective.
Now it is said that an open tactic is the best way to motivate your subordinates.
Many top managers say, why would I share my decisions, my forecasts and strategies with my subordinates.
They should do what I say.
It is important for them to hear what task they need to do.
However, this is wrong.
Because the low motivation of a simple, stupid execution is a slave.
Now people are developed, they want to be personalities.
They want to understand why they need to do a specific business task.
Therefore, openness is sometimes the driving factor for successful motivation of employees.
The next two tactics are role-based and personal.
Why are they opposite?
When a personal tactic is used, you are as open as possible.
All your movements, all your thoughts, all your decisions come from your personality.
Or as if from your personality, if you use it as a game.
If you use a role-based tactic, then all decisions, words, everything you say comes from your business or social role.
When is a personal tactic effective?
In fact, in most cases of business communication in places.
It is very successful for opening up your charisma in a public speech.
It is not just a regular accountant.
It is not an accountant standing in front of people, but a personality.
It attracts attention, it causes trust.
In conversations, in a comfortable emotional atmosphere, the most beneficial, the most effective is a personal tactic.
Because you look like a personality, you look like a leader, an effective communicator.
When is a role-based tactic used?
A role-based tactic is used as a way of protection.
Either from manipulation, or from too tough behavior of a partner or a negotiator.
When you are pressured, you can close yourself and say,
I'm just an accountant, I have to do what I do.
It's a kind of shell, a kind of wall.
Trust in you is undoubtedly falling.
Your charisma, of course, is closing.
But you are protecting yourself.
The next two tactics are confrontation and partnership.
What is the difference?
Partnership causes immersion in the opinion of the interlocutor.
You listen to him carefully, try to understand.
You live his goals and thoughts.
Emotionally support him.
Try to unite your own and his interests.
Confrontation is a tactic of stable behavior.
You have set certain goals.
You have found out what strategy goes to them.
You do not show any flexibility, but are planned, move and move to your goal.
All the suggested thoughts, opinions, arguments do not matter.
You do what you think is necessary.
You go and go in your own way.
Again, confrontation is good, especially when you have chosen the winner's strategy.
Of course, you go and go with a blunt wedge.
But remember that a flexible person sitting opposite you can use new tools against this.
Catch you in a trap.
Chess players will say, make a fork.
And then you will look funny.
Be careful.
Confrontation is a strong tactic.
But it is too tough.
Like a razor blade.
It is sharp, but can easily break.
When choosing a strategy, you should play a game.
You should not choose this tactic and deny any flexibility.
It can seriously interfere with you.
I did not place these 6 tactics in two columns in vain.
You noticed that the tactics of openness, personal tactics and partnership are located on the right.
People smile and are successful and happy.
On the left is a closed tactic.
Role and confrontation.
You are closed, you are ready for war.
In fact, all these tactics are equally effective.
You can use both.
However, open personal tactics and partnership are considered more effective.
You need to understand that you use them here and now.
Because it is necessary at this particular moment.
But the most effective negotiations, the most effective public speech is where personal and open tactics are used.
Therefore, try to translate the tactics of your interlocutor and your tactics from the left column to the right.
From confrontation to partnership.
From role tactics to personal tactics.
From closed to open.
In fact, this information can be much more important than all the previous ones.
Because the previous ones are often told in MBA courses, in business trainings.
And they can be read in various books.
What is written on this slide is very important.
Because it has a great impact on business relations.
But we often forget about it.
What I will say now, you don't need to look for in others.
Try to find it in yourself.
Try to find ways to get away from this situation.
And more effective and flexible behavior.
Personal aspects of business relations.
We will start with the fact that we will consider the institutions.
The institutions of our personality, which on the one hand help us to live happily,
help us to live calmly and not go crazy, but on the other hand, interfere with effective business communication.
For example, let's take the first one.
Estimation.
What is it?
And what is it bad about?
And what is it good about?
It is good because by evaluating people around us, we simplify our picture of the world.
If we have evaluated this person, we know whether he is good or bad.
We know what to expect from him, what to expect from his actions.
And we can generalize some of his qualities.
If it is bad in one, then bad in another.
Everything becomes much easier.
You don't have to spend every moment of time to understand what kind of person he is and what will happen next.
On the other hand, it is very annoying.
For example, if we see that this person is poorly dressed,
we can decide that he has bad business qualities,
that he is incompetent in the matter in which he came to deal with.
Why? In fact, he may be just poorly dressed and very competent.
There are many examples of this.
Therefore, such an extrapolation of qualities, if he is bad in one, then bad in another,
may interfere with us because we lose a lot of resources.
For example, the resources of the person we will not have relations with later
simply because he looks somehow illiterate.
At the same time, if a person made a mistake once,
that is, if he did something wrong at work,
then our assessment system immediately decides that he will always do it wrong.
It adjusts us to negative attitudes towards this person.
Of course, I understand that even in personal relations this is often very important,
but in business it is important twice as much.
We stop supporting this person, we stop praising him.
And it becomes even worse for him, he made a mistake.
His self-esteem drops and he prefers to leave this workplace
than to correct the mistake and move on.
Therefore, the assessment system is good for us, but it is very distracting.
It is best to decide every time what kind of person this person is,
to explain everything very specifically, here and now,
and to understand that we are talking only about those qualities that we are talking about,
without letting our brain rest and relax, preventing us from perceiving others.
The next setting is the rigidity setting.
Young people who communicate with their parents are familiar with it.
This setting is also called the problem of fathers and children.
Rigidity is the inability to perceive new things in the psyche.
The inability to change very quickly.
The inability to change their opinion due to some arguments.
Most often we say, yes, I hear this setting perfectly and I know it perfectly.
Everyone around me is so rigid, I tell them something, but they don't hear me.
But in fact, maybe they don't even need to be told this.
Maybe it's worth listening to what they say and taking their point of view.
In business, it is especially important to be flexible.
If you move on a break, you can always move in one direction and lose the market.
Therefore, the rigidity setting simplifies our life.
Because the world is as it is, and you don't need to spend extra resources
to understand something new, to understand new interactions in this world.
But in fact, any successful businessman will say,
if you don't absorb new things, don't find new ways of development,
don't accept the creativity of others and the creativity of your own group,
then it is impossible to win in the market, it is impossible to become a leader.
Therefore, the rigidity setting is natural for the elderly.
With age, rigidity is normally enhanced.
But nevertheless, listen to yourself.
Maybe you have already become completely confident in one opinion.
Then it is worth changing it, it is worth getting used to it.
Around the universe of opinions, the universe of choices,
you can find new ways of development.
This will help you to solve the strategy of win-win.
The next setting is the ego-centrism setting.
This is a very interesting setting.
We are talking about an egoist, an egocentric person
who is constantly looking for attention, constantly in the center of attention,
constantly attracting others to himself, who is always thinking about himself,
whose self-confidence is very high.
In fact, this is not so.
The ego-centrism setting, on the contrary, prevents us from gaining self-confidence,
prevents us from attracting others.
Why does this happen?
The ego-centrism setting itself says that everything that happens around a person
is taken into account.
Everything that happens, happens either for good or for evil.
All the people who are around him are for the sake of this person.
But this is certainly not so.
After all, when they laugh behind our backs, they do not always laugh at us.
But we often think that this is so.
Therefore, when the ego-centrism setting presses very hard on you,
you are always worried about who and what and how thought about you.
You always think that if some kind of failure has happened,
then it is directed against you by evil.
You always think that if you are not noticed,
then these people are angry with you.
They direct their aggression at you.
But this is not so.
These people are just people, and they have their own world, their own universe.
You have your own world, and you have your own universe.
They do not necessarily intersect.
In the same way, in order to attract the attention of others,
you need to get away from this setting.
An boring lecturer who reads his lecture in a dull voice,
he thinks that everyone is listening to him.
In fact, everyone thinks about their own problems,
about tasks at work.
But at the same time, in order to attract the attention of the audience,
you need to make an effort,
you need to take certain steps,
you need to apply specific tools,
specific techniques, and then it will work.
The audience never pays attention to itself.
Therefore, the setting of egocentrism prevents you from doing so.
In order to be confident in yourself, create your own universe.
In order to attract attention, do it.
Do not let it get to you.
The next setting is the setting of projection.
It is very disturbing in our relations,
especially if you look at the international and political level.
In fact, the setting of projection says that we always project
our beliefs, our worldview,
our thoughts about our world,
our understanding of this world, our experience to other people.
We believe that if what we have in our head,
we must have it in the heads of others.
And often, therefore, we cannot understand their actions.
We cannot accept their position.
We cannot open them for ourselves.
We cannot establish effective strategies and tactics of business relations,
because we believe that the strategy or tactics that we have chosen,
is definitely chosen by our partner,
a participant of our communication.
Therefore, this setting is very disturbing to openness
and effective interaction.
The search for weak sides in our partner.
The search for strong sides.
Do not project your strong sides and your weak sides
on the person we communicate with.
This is especially important in tough negotiations.
The next aspect of relations is its multilevel.
We have already talked about this a little,
but now we will talk in more detail.
In fact, in any relationship, both business and personal,
there are two fields, two levels of interaction.
This is the emotional background, emotional interaction,
and the informational background, informational interaction.
Most often emotionally, in general, emotions are a deeper,
more ancient level of interaction.
The more ancient areas of our main brain are responsible for it.
The beginnings of emotions can be found in highly developed animals.
The informational background is more modern.
The emotional background is more modern.
The main brain is responsible for it.
The intellectual activity exists only in a person.
Some people think that if a person is a person,
then there is only an informational background in his communication.
The most important thing is what he says, but in fact it is not so.
Most of the information we receive is not verbal.
We receive it at the level of sensations,
so if we pay attention only to the informational component,
we will not succeed.
If the emotional background of your interlocutor is low,
that is, he is upset or angry,
or he is in a state of apathy,
in any case, it will be impossible to reach him.
All the information that comes to him will be blocked by his main brain.
Why?
Because the maximum resources are aimed at neutralizing his negative emotions.
Or to change the situation so that these emotions come to normal.
That is, either change them inside or outside.
On the other hand, even if some of the information gets into the brain,
in any case it will be associated with negative emotions.
A person will never like what you told him when he was angry or upset.
It can hurt even more than if he does not hear what you say at all.
Therefore, in any interaction, it can be a presentation, a public speech,
a meeting, a discussion, a discussion,
or just ordinary business relations at work.
In any case, it is necessary to have a negative background.
It is necessary to start with it, otherwise everything else becomes pointless.
The slide shows an approximate diagram of how to act
during any conversation, any interaction.
During the entire first stage, it is necessary to pay attention to emotional development.
Effective top managers know that the higher you are on the hierarchical ladder of the company,
the more attention you need to pay to the introduction to the conversation.
The more attention the instrument of small conversations,
conversations about nothing, conversations that build up an atmosphere of interaction,
a pleasant and pleasant one for work.
We will talk about how to do this later.
But now back to the diagram.
The emotional background is established, everyone feels good,
the atmosphere of communication exists.
Then you can move on to the information field,
start exchanging information, passing it on and creating information.
But it is very important that during the course of the event,
during your interaction, you need to return to the emotional background,
constantly monitor it.
Why?
So that it does not become negative in any case.
Very often in the midst of some kind of interaction, argument, discussion,
or, especially important, in the midst of some kind of proposal, presentation,
you stop noticing the environment, immerse yourself in your thoughts and ideas.
At this moment, the emotional background of your interlocutor may change.
He may get tired of aggressive information transfer,
he may experience some kind of internal resistance to this information.
If you miss the moment, then the whole business conversation, everything goes to waste.
All results go to waste.
They don't even appear.
Therefore, it is very important that these small steps,
a small return to the emotional background,
are necessary between the information blocks.
Which is usually longer.
After all, the goal of our business communication, we must not forget,
is not the relationship, but information and business result.
But it is very important to finish your speech, your negotiations,
not by summing up, as very often happens,
but again, with a positive emotional background.
It is necessary to have certain tools for establishing an emotional background at the end of the meeting.
A person, saying goodbye to you, leaving the room or the auditorium,
must definitely experience a feeling of rising, positive emotions.
Then he will want to meet you again,
establish a long-term relationship, establish cooperation.
And this will help the result of the meeting.
In no case can you finish the meeting with a negative emotional background.
Even if you didn't come to anything,
even if you didn't achieve the business result at this meeting,
the last step in any case should be to establish a positive emotional background.
You must make your client happy and happy, even if he didn't buy anything.
Then he will come to you again.
Remember this in a situation of unresolved interaction,
when you didn't achieve the result.
You can be upset yourself, but please,
you need to try to establish the emotional background of your interlocutor as much as possible.
The first and most important thing,
on the one hand, the simplest and most convenient thing,
you can make much fewer mistakes in it.
This is a change in the tone, pace of speech and volume.
In fact, it is very easy to calm the audience if it is completely infuriated,
if it moves very sharply,
if everyone cannot calm down with the tone of speech.
The tone is very high, for example, like a mouse squeaks.
Or very low, like a bear goes.
It is very important to translate the tone from one register to another.
This is what establishes the emotional background.
If you need to calm the audience,
you go from the upper register to the lower one,
that is, you go down intonationally.
You calm the audience,
you go from the upper register to the lower one.
Practice this on your children.
If you read them a fairy tale with such an intonation,
they will fall asleep very quickly.
Maybe even earlier, and you will fall asleep.
And if you say any words with such an intonation,
your audience will calm down.
You need to finish the sentence at the very bottom.
Again, if you raise the register,
if you want to wake up the audience,
if you want to get rid of apathy,
you need to go from the bottom to the top.
Then everyone will welcome you, everyone will start talking again,
everyone will wake up and will be more active.
The pace of speech is fast and slow.
Slow pace always calms.
This is very important.
If you need to calm down yourself,
slow down your speech,
you will be more calm.
And the volume of speech, of course.
A quiet speech is calmer than a loud one.
The next tool is the use of divisive or unifying pronouns.
In general, unifying is very effective.
If you want to establish development paths,
establish relationships,
unite your goals,
use the pronoun we.
Not I and you, not you.
Be sure to use we right away.
Even if you have not signed the agreements yet.
Even if you are not working in this company yet,
say that it is our company, say we.
This is very important.
At the same time, if you want to disconnect from an unpleasant audience,
from an unpleasant event,
then use the divisive pronoun.
Use statements that affect the self-esteem of the partner.
Compliments are important.
You need to start with them,
and you need to finish with them.
The most important thing in compliments is not to say at all.
You look great today.
This is not a compliment, but a lisp.
You need to say what is great.
What exactly distinguishes an object from another.
Therefore, if you came to a new office,
look at what you liked.
What exactly did you like in the document and in the report that your subordinate brought you?
What exactly did you like in the project that your partners offer you?
What exactly did you like in the words of your boss?
Tell him about it.
This is very important, do not forget.
And the objectivation technique is the last difficult tool.
It is brought in an additional package.
I will not dwell on it for a long time.
I will say simply.
Objectivation is the pronunciation of what is really there.
If you are angry, if you see that your partner is feeling bad,
or experiencing some other negative emotions.
If you feel that the situation has gone into a deadlock,
and that something went wrong,
tell about it without assessing, just like that.
Here I feel bad.
Here you are, Vladimir Ivanovich, I think you are angry.
Here the situation, in my opinion, has gone into a deadlock.
It is very important not to assess, not to look for a reason,
but just to say it.
Believe me, the person who has found the strength to speak out the real situation,
causes the greatest trust.
His charisma is growing incomparably.
Active listening techniques.
In fact, the techniques are quite well known.
Most of the leaders have been to trainings,
where they teach active listening.
These techniques are described in any textbook.
It would seem that there is no point in talking about it in detail now.
But in fact, I want to talk about something else.
I want to talk about the fact that we often hear the interlocutor,
but very rarely listen to him.
The thing is, of course, in the sales techniques it is said that
before presenting your product, you must listen to the interlocutor,
what he needs.
But in fact, this is the basis of the active listening technique.
In order to convince the interlocutor as much as possible,
no matter how strange it is, you do not need to convey your point of view to him.
It is harmful.
In order to convince the interlocutor,
you need to understand his point of view and shake it.
Therefore, in any case, any interaction should start with listening,
with understanding this.
You are probably interested in the fact,
I often talk about it in training,
when I ask, what do you think,
top management of the best companies in the world,
the best 100 companies in the world,
more introverts or more extroverts,
more sociable or more obedient people?
It is very interesting that everyone thinks that they are sociable,
that due to their sociability they have achieved such effective results in their careers.
But in fact, everything is exactly the opposite.
The higher a person is in the hierarchical ladder of a large company,
the more he is an introvert.
He understands, thinks, creates, thinks, creates some concepts,
creates business plans, thinks through the results.
But it is inside his head.
He listens to his subordinates, makes conclusions and makes decisions.
He does not impose his point of view, he interacts.
Therefore, it is very important to listen and start with this.
The situation in any communication, especially in business communication,
is owned by the one who listens,
because he does not make mistakes.
He understands the weaknesses and strengths of his interlocutor.
Therefore, please, active listening.
These techniques are clear, they are detailed in the application.
I want to talk about something else.
We are often prevented from listening to our own point of view,
especially our constant monologue.
We constantly talk to ourselves, we constantly convince ourselves.
I talked about the creation of my own universe,
that it will help to be confident.
Here is the same.
In order to listen to others correctly,
you need to stop your own speech, your own dialogue.
For this, good relaxation techniques are needed.
Concentration on a certain object, for example, on your breath.
Then, by stopping the inner dialogue,
you can listen to others more effectively.
I advise you to use these techniques before any important interaction,
before any important event.
We move from general techniques, general strategies, general tactics
to specific tools, specific events.
The first type of business communication is public speech.
Why did I put it in the first place?
In fact, it is the most exciting, the most serious,
the most important, the most responsible in the events in our life.
As a personal consultant, I can say that I am mostly hired
to develop the skills of public communication.
And to develop the skills of business communication
only in the case when everything is going wrong,
when the conflict situation is so old and persistent
that the situation has gone into a deadlock.
Why does public speech cause such trepidation?
Even one of the main fears of a person is the fear of public speech.
The thing is that public speech is always one against many.
In our ancient archetypal understanding,
one against many is always a risk of death.
Therefore, when we speak in front of an audience,
it is as if we are always risking our lives.
Why does this happen?
Because in the wild tribe, when one person was against all the others,
it could be a situation when she was sick and lagged behind the herd,
and now she will die alone, and no one will be able to protect her.
This is a situation when the herd itself has driven her away,
and this also means close death.
This is a situation when one male is against another.
One leader wants to take the place of another leader in the flock.
In this case, the leaders always fight not for life, but for death.
Therefore, either you become the leader or you die.
Therefore, the key to public speech, if it is reverent for you,
becomes the instrument, the thought, the technique
that I will tell you about now.
Please, imagine, tell yourself, there is nothing wrong.
In any case, I will stay alive.
In any case, I will stay healthy.
In general, nothing will happen, no matter how public the performance is.
Now, what to do in public?
What is next, after you rise?
This is the creation of a positive emotional background.
Of course, you need to start with yourself.
You have already insisted that there is nothing wrong with this,
that everyone can perform publicly.
Take a deep breath, it will lower the diaphragm,
let your lungs breathe, straighten your vocal cords,
and you will be able to speak naturally and openly.
Then you go out in front of the audience.
Stop, be silent for a while, and meet with the audience.
This is important, it will establish contact.
Then you can speak.
And you need to start with establishing an emotional background.
You need to introduce yourself.
And then immediately say compliments,
say thanks,
say good words,
so that everyone feels happy,
calm, happy,
and is tuned and directed to your future performances.
You can preempt a little emotional background,
you can continue,
if no one introduced you, you can start with the introduction,
and then the emotional background.
In the introduction, it is very important to say the following.
Who am I? We have already said about it.
It is very important to say why I came here.
Just because I was invited, I don't know what I'm standing for.
Or do you really want to achieve some results?
Announce them, what results do you want to get yourself.
But it is very important to say that you brought the audience.
Remember the egotistical attitude?
Here I am, I do everything for myself.
But in fact, a person is not interested in listening to you,
not interested in listening to your goals,
not interested in listening to your experience.
A person is interested in listening to himself.
It is more important and more interesting for him to listen
to his own desires, to his own happiness or unhappiness,
problems or tasks, points of vulnerability or ways of development.
Please formulate your whole thing in the way it can bring people.
Speak in their formulas, in their dictionary,
and in their specific terms.
Don't use complex terms of speech, it will be very disturbing.
It will immediately remove the audience from you.
The next part is the content part.
You have established an emotional background, people have introduced themselves,
they understood why you came to them.
And now you can say informational things,
pass information, put it into the heads of others.
Structure your speech, prescribe it.
Be consistent.
When you speak, keep an eye on the eyes of others.
Meet with your eyes.
Six seconds is the best time to keep an eye on the audience.
It does not frighten on the one hand, but on the other hand it attracts.
Please practice.
Keep an eye for six seconds and translate it to another place.
It will help you for further meetings, for further speeches.
It is very important.
Next, the conclusion.
The results.
Psychologists say that the most important part of your speech
is the very beginning and the very end.
Do you understand what I'm talking about?
The most important part for you can be placed anywhere.
But if you want to achieve the result,
you must put it in the very beginning or the very end.
So, the conclusion is not about yourself,
but about what you can bring to the audience.
The benefit that it will take from interacting with you.
From fulfilling your goals, too.
So, in the end, it is necessary to have the benefit,
not just a list of what you have already said.
And the last one.
Open the space for further interaction.
You can ask if there are any questions.
They will always say no.
So you need to ask what questions you have.
Tell where people can get additional information.
Tell what steps to take for further interaction with you.
Arrange for further meetings.
Tell a certain schedule.
Anything.
The meeting should not end in a closed form.
It should be open for further interaction.
Otherwise, why was this meeting necessary?
In the previous slide, we talked about the sequence of your speech.
What needs to be done in sequence, what should be paid attention to.
This is a systematic approach.
There are nuances.
The most important nuances.
Nuances are important in all elements of your speech.
We pronounce them.
Always talk not about your problems, tasks, needs,
but about the problems of the audience.
I have already said this.
This is very important.
It is important to tune your message
using the tool I, you and our common cause.
And only based on the concept of our common cause
can you convey your information to the heads of others.
Never read on paper or on the screen.
If you write down your speech when you talk,
and then write down your speech when you read,
you will see a big difference.
You will understand that the speech you read on paper is not saturated.
It is monotonous.
It is not like boo-boo-boo.
Sometimes it is even less saturated.
In addition, the speech you write is very different from the live business speech.
Therefore, the sentences are arranged differently,
and have a different length and interaction of words.
Therefore, please, never read on paper.
You communicate with your paper.
You are happy with your paper.
The audience is happy with their paper.
And they do not perceive this information.
If you can read on paper,
why can't the audience read on paper?
Why do you need to read on paper?
It is also important that you do not have a paper in your hands,
but you have a monitor, a screen,
a presentation, some items, and a lot of small words.
It is very convenient to read these items and small words.
In fact, the presentation is even more effective
when the slide is written in a completely different way than what you say.
Why? Because a person will read what is written on this presentation.
He sees it perfectly.
There is no point in speaking it.
What you speak, you must speak separately.
It should be an addition to the presentation.
If it is difficult for you to formulate your speech,
use writing.
Write a composition.
Moreover, you can write drafts of this speech.
Just always leave them at home.
If it is difficult for you to concentrate and find the right word,
write several versions of these speeches at once.
With such a stream of consciousness,
without thinking for a long time and without formulating words.
Write 5 or 10 versions of the speech.
And then leave all of them at home.
And then, working for an audience,
you will come up with the most necessary, successful,
and the most appropriate version.
Specifically, from this audience, here and now.
The next point is the use of visual tools.
Of course, when we speak simply,
in fact, 70% of the information comes from the visual.
A person is ready for visual information.
It is much more terrible for us if we go blind
than if we go deaf and stop feeling.
Therefore, please, if possible,
if there is an opportunity to create a visual image,
use it.
You can show something with gestures,
if there are no opportunities at all.
PowerPoint is now a great tool
to create interesting visual images.
But the most effective is if visual images appear
during the speech.
Of course, you can use animation,
that is, to bring to life the image and some words on the screen.
But if you draw on the board,
write on the board during the speech,
it is definitely much more
embedded in the heads of your listeners.
Use this tool.
Just like writing,
practice drawing on the board,
at home, on a piece of paper.
The next point is to be brief.
In fact, the briefness is important in everything.
Let's start with the menu items on the slides.
I visit conferences and notice that this is the main mistake.
There are a lot of items.
Or a lot of words in each item.
I have a lot of suggestions.
In fact, if you need to convey a lot of information,
make a brief.
If you have a very rich presentation,
make a lot of slides.
But no more than a slide per minute.
Because more frequent change of the slide is tiring.
There should be no more than 5,
a maximum of 7 items on the slide.
Why is this happening?
Because 7 numbers are much faster
than 8 numbers.
7 words are much faster than 8 words.
In other words, we have a kind of data bus in our head,
which has only 7 cells.
But 7 cells is an extreme number.
Therefore, it is best to have 5 items.
Just like it is most effective
to manage a team of 5 people.
If there are more people in the team,
the level of management and efficiency decreases.
This is a brief about the items in the menu.
Next.
It is very important to be brief in the sentences.
In the written sentences there should be no more
than 5-7 words in the sentence.
It is very important to be brief in the sentences
of those you speak.
You seem to be more expert, smarter and more weighty
than you are.
In fact, almost none of them will be incomprehensible.
Even when you write advertising slogans,
e-mails and phone calls,
you need to speak briefly.
Try to express your thoughts in a more brief form.
Believe me, if something is not clear,
you will be asked a question.
But if you constantly explain something,
you will be judged by the audience.
Your confidence will be reduced.
It is also very important to plan your speech time.
Plan your speech time less than the time
given by the regulations.
There will always be some complicated situations,
some subtleties.
It is very difficult to put all the details
into the speech in the time you say.
And if you are at a conference,
and the previous speaker spoke longer than necessary,
and the general regulations are pressing you,
it is an unpleasant situation.
It is better to finish earlier.
Believe me, the audience will be very grateful to you.
They can rather go for a coffee break and drink coffee
than if you delay the speech.
Then, on the contrary, everyone is very worried
that this person dared to press
on my own internal schedule,
which, in turn, reduces the emotional background.
And we have already said that this is very ineffective.
Therefore, please be careful.
Give less time to the regulations
than it is given at the conference.
Clear language.
Of course, everything you say should be clear to the audience.
Find out the level of your audience.
If you don't know it, speak as clearly as possible.
Use clever terms only if they are necessary.
If you don't know what to do,
be sure to explain what it means.
And the last point is to be interactive.
It is very difficult to listen to a constant lecture.
You listen to me all the time.
I can't ask you anything.
Probably, if you are tired, I understand you.
Why? Because interactivity is the most effective way
to attract attention.
Use some exercises.
The exercises will be rhetorical.
The most important thing is that the person has established this relationship.
He was asked something.
Then he will wake up, wake up from his thoughts,
and concentrate on your speech.
At this moment, it will be easier for you to convey your opinion
and put it in the heads of others.
Repetition.
It is a really great thing.
I can tell you about five different versions of my speech.
Great! Now speak them.
And without a piece of paper.
Look at the words that are difficult for you to pronounce.
Look at what you can remember and what you have already forgotten.
Look at how you feel and how you behave.
Try your speech to the touch of the tongue.
Try how your presentation behaves.
I mean the electronic PowerPoint.
And how you draw on the board.
If this is a responsible event,
take a board and draw everything you draw again.
And speak. Believe me, this is very important.
You will feel much more confident.
And most importantly, you have spoken it alone.
Now find an audience and speak it to the public.
It does not matter to whom you will tell.
At home or at work.
Come to a person and say,
I really care about your opinion.
And he will listen to you carefully.
Here are the main recipes for success.
Use them in difficult and simple situations.
In public speeches or presentations in a working group.
Then the success of your presentation will be achieved.
We have held an effective presentation.
An effective business speech.
After that, we left the space open.
They want to communicate with us.
And we agree on a meeting.
About business conversation.
Business conversation differs from public speech in that
you are standing alone publicly against many.
In business conversation,
most often 2-4 people.
You can talk and discuss.
The form of communication is not a monologue, but a dialogue.
You constantly exchange information.
Your emotional background is more common.
There is a so-called group dynamics.
You interact and exchange fields of your emotions.
More closely than in a group.
And this is very important.
More closely than in a public speech.
The essence of business conversation is somewhat different.
Most often, its result is
the achievement of certain agreements.
Explanation of the further path of development.
Or determination of specific steps in this development
and in general interaction.
For example, in business conversation,
you can talk about the development of a company.
To start a business conversation,
you need to create an emotional background.
And I will say that in this case,
when creating an emotional background,
business conversation is of particular importance.
It is the contact with the eyes.
It is the attention to the interlocutor
at the earliest stage of your communication.
Remember, your reputation is not so important.
If you show this attention,
you will show some participation.
You will say kind words, compliments.
Remember, compliments should be specific.
If you show participation in your interlocutor.
On the contrary, it will cause trust.
Your openness will be rewarded with a response openness.
It will be easier for you to understand your interlocutor.
And to clarify his strategies and tactics.
The next stage of business conversation
is the creation of a unified information field.
To be honest, it's very bad.
If we start a business conversation
with the following words.
I have this point of view.
I want you to say this and that.
Believe me, it's not effective.
You haven't agreed on the terms yet.
A person can decide that he came here with someone else.
This is what needs to be clarified.
To clarify your goals.
To clarify the goals of your interlocutor.
To clarify his information field.
What does he already know?
What would he like to bring here?
To clarify your goals.
Your understanding.
Your point of view on the result of the business conversation.
It is very important to agree on the terms in advance.
How much time do you have?
If a person is in a hurry, he will be nervous.
If you talk a lot and for a long time.
If, on the contrary, you are in a hurry,
but you stop the conversation right in the middle.
And your interlocutor wanted to bring some more information to you.
This will offend him.
Believe me, he will not want to talk to you any more.
It will be difficult for you to establish the same good relations
as before this rapid interruption.
Remember about the restoration of egocentrism.
If you interrupt a person, he feels unnecessary and abandoned.
Do not allow this.
Therefore, the regulations are very important.
Next is responsibility.
Who takes responsibility in this conversation?
Who is the initiator of this conversation?
Who will make the responsible decision?
How is the responsibility distributed between you?
Who cares about the result of this decision?
It is important to discuss this at the very beginning.
Because then it will be difficult to build a discussion
and build your proposal without clarifying it.
Believe me, very often,
this remains unclear and prevents the agreement.
It leads to conflicts that do not really exist.
Goals are separate.
Goals must be discussed.
First, you need to clarify them for yourself very clearly.
Formulate them on the points.
Write them down. Express them on paper.
And come to an agreement with this.
Then, having discussed them and opened them to your interlocutor,
you need to find out the goal of the interlocutor.
It is also important to start with this.
Because maybe your goals are completely different.
He decided to just look and feel.
And you came to sign a contract.
Be careful and attentive.
You must unite yourself with the information field.
A single information space.
Only in this case, it is possible to achieve the maximum
mutual result.
That is, a win-win strategy.
Again, if you feel tough in your relationship,
if you are aiming for a conqueror strategy,
especially since you need to find out
the weak points of your opponent,
you need to understand what he is aiming for
in order to protect yourself and attack correctly.
The next stage of your business conversation
is normal, natural interaction.
Explaining the situation and the vision of both partners.
Here I want to say one more very important thing.
The fact is that our point of view,
I actually already mentioned it,
the cognitive picture of the world,
our understanding of the world,
all our installations, all knowledge,
everything that is in our head,
is a very clear structure.
It would be funny if it were not.
The fact is that we need it
in order to meet the principles of natural selection,
to be stronger than the situation that is around us.
But if something is trying to shift this cognitive picture of the world,
there is internal resistance.
If a person was happy with his picture of the world,
why should he change it?
If his state is stable,
then his picture of the world brings him success and stability.
Why should he change it?
Therefore, if you want to apply the process of persuasion,
that is, to apply persuasion tools,
especially emotional pressure,
or informational, or vocal,
to pressure the interlocutor,
it will cause a lot of internal resistance.
A person will begin to resist even the fact that it will help him a lot,
and will make him as happy, satisfied, satisfied as possible.
It will help him achieve the same result.
We wonder why this happens.
That is why we came across the internal resistance
to changing the picture of the world.
What to do? First, to clarify this picture for yourself as much as possible.
To make sure that what you offer your interlocutor
is not a displacement of this picture,
but an intensification and deepening of it.
In fact, very often it is just a matter of terms,
and it is just a matter of posing the question.
Therefore, very often the same thing can be expressed in different words,
and by saying it in the language of your interlocutor,
you will achieve more than,
say, in your own language,
in the language of your own concepts,
in the language of your picture of the world.
Therefore, at the stage of clarifying the situation,
be sure to pay more attention to clarifying the vision of the partner.
This will tell you about an effective communicator,
and only in this case you will hold the situation in your own hands.
Because the situation is not in your hands,
but in the hands of the one who listens,
the one who knows the other.
The next stage of the negotiations and business conversation in general
is the clarification of hidden factors.
This is very important.
What is on the surface, what you were told,
what you decided to open,
it is not always all that you have in your hands.
What you were told, what you decided to open,
You must be prepared for this stage in detail.
You need to make a list of pre-structured questions
that will clarify all the elements of the position,
and not only those that your interlocutor decided to open for you.
Agree, he certainly told you about all the strong sides of his ideas,
the positions of his business result.
Now you are interested in learning all the sides, including the weak ones.
There are structured interview tools.
But, in short, you just need to ask a lot of different questions in detail.
In detail.
See what questions are inconvenient for the interlocutor.
Establish an emotional background and continue to ask about it.
Believe me, this will clarify a lot for you.
Similarly, if you feel that your interlocutor is in doubt,
feels some internal objection,
be sure to show it at this stage.
So tell me, objectivation, what do you feel?
It seems to me that you feel irritation.
Let's talk about it. Why do you feel irritation?
It is very important that there is no internal resistance to your words,
to the presentation of your idea.
And in the same way, if you feel your doubts, your objections,
do not be afraid to talk about them.
Your interlocutor has subconsciously felt them.
But if you do not show them, he can take them into account.
He may think that they are much stronger than they really are.
He may start to press you because he is afraid of this resistance.
This can prevent you from having confidence.
Therefore, it is very important to show your doubts and objections.
Do not be afraid to do it.
You do not look stupid when asking questions.
You look stupid when you do not understand and establish agreements.
The next step is to create a single approach to solving the problem.
The sequence of these three stages is very important.
At the beginning, the situation is clarified.
It is clear what is common and what is the difference between your positions.
Then the inner hidden factor is clarified.
And only then is the creation of a single approach.
At this stage, a very common mistake is to go into a strategy of compromise.
It seems that you already had a strategy of unification.
You listened to your partner, you understood his point of view.
But here you remain in the same plane.
The plane of your thoughts.
Or you begin to plunge into the plane of the thoughts and understanding of the interlocutor.
Again, a flat position.
Like a razor, which is very sharp, but very fragile.
It is very important to find a third plane.
Which is both a system and another.
This is very convenient to do in business games.
After training in simplified situations, it is easier for you to do this in reality.
Why?
Because the isolated situation seems easier.
Because the isolated situation seems easier because it is less responsible.
At work, plunging into responsibility, plunging into dependence on the situation,
it is very difficult to get up on it.
To find a third plane, a third responsibility.
But this is really very important when making a joint decision.
Believe me, the most interesting business decisions, the most effective successes
were achieved when there was a third plane of the two-way solution.
And the last stage is the confirmation of agreements.
This is very important.
Because you found a joint decision, you overcame all resistance.
You effectively found a common universe of your result.
But the meeting can end in nothing.
Why?
Because your decision is not recorded and not confirmed by specific documents.
This can affect the sales process.
When a person is ready to buy, but the check is not issued, he can leave the store.
This also applies to the stages of negotiations.
When it is said, yes, everything is very wonderful and good, thank you, thank you, we will meet again.
This is not good luck.
Good luck when you have clearly agreed on what you will do next.
You have completely agreed on your further actions.
It is best if all this is confirmed in a documentary.
It is interesting that if you are not ready to sign the papers, you can just record it by hand.
See what your interlocutor recorded.
In this case, the subconscious understanding that what is written with a pen cannot be cut out with an ax will be useful to you.
Be sure to write it down in front of your interlocutor.
This will confirm your intention.
This will help you create a common space for further actions.
Group discussion.
Do you feel it is already more difficult?
Normal, successful negotiations.
Normal business communication at meetings.
Normal business communication just at workplaces.
Good. But what if the points of view are different?
And maybe some negotiations ended only with clarifying positions or clarifying some space for interaction.
But you need to find a common solution, a new solution.
This slide shows a group discussion.
In fact, the same sequence for a brainstorming.
What is the difference?
The difference is that in the discussion people have worked out their positions in advance.
They have already come up with some ready-made materials and understanding of the task.
A new one is born right away in a brainstorming.
In the process of clarification, I will say what is different and how.
But in fact, these tools seem to be very simple.
They always work.
Many of my clients said,
Ha, brainstorming, you will teach us brainstorming.
We know this, this tool is not very effective.
It is old and does not work.
In fact, now I will talk about those nuances that will allow you to make this tool effective as it is.
Because nothing has been invented better.
Everything else is more specific, small and not so effective details.
Or variants of the same brainstorming.
The discussion is fundamentally different.
Just at one stage there is no new appearance, but there is a preparation of a ready-made solution.
Let's move on to the points.
The first point is to appoint a host.
He is the most important.
He is most often missed.
Believe me, it is very important, both in the discussion and in the brainstorming.
Although, it seems to be different things.
It is necessary that there is a host.
Why?
This is a person who is not involved.
Still, any of us who offers a solution to a problem in this discussion,
who is involved, he is emotionally interested.
Always in any discussions, whether you want it or not, the emotional background will rise.
That is, he is not positive, but just brighter, stronger.
Therefore, the host is a person who is emotionally not interested.
He does not offer his solution and does not participate in the discussion process.
He only monitors the advertising.
Therefore, if you are interested in the country and want to offer your solution,
let someone offer it for you.
Or better yet, find a host who is really not interested in the results of this discussion or brainstorming.
So what does the host do?
He follows the rules and the golden rules that lead you to the result.
Then believe me, you will succeed.
I was hired to a team that could not come to a single opinion.
They discussed for many hours and days.
The total amount exceeded 30 hours of discussion.
We met and decided everything in two hours.
With the help of these golden rules.
I was a host.
The next point. Where do we start?
We discuss the subject of discussion in detail.
We set a task.
We agree on the rules.
How much, who and what says.
If the host is a professional, he can do it himself during the discussion.
But it is best to say it so that there is no offense.
I was not listened to, but he spoke for so long, and I want to speak for so long, but I was interrupted.
Please, let's talk.
First, do not interrupt.
Second, follow the rules.
Rules 3 minutes, 5 minutes, 20 minutes.
Depending on what you want to hear.
I would not advise to make rules more than 5-7 minutes.
Many 10 minutes of each speech.
People get tired, they lose their understanding.
Confused information is more difficult to perceive.
And the main thing is more difficult to compare.
So it's better to be brief.
Believe me, with brief information, everything will be much easier.
You will convey better and will look more confident.
Great.
We stated the topic, discussed the rules, talked about how everything will go.
The next step.
The stage of specific work.
We offer a solution.
At the discussion, we offer our worked out options.
And on the brainstorming, we create new.
And here is the difference.
All these options need to be recorded in advance.
There must be a protocol.
The host can deal with the protocol, or it is conducted separately.
In the case of a discussion, participants can bring their opinions in advance.
And give them to others.
In this case, it is better to structure them clearly.
And do not overload with unnecessary information.
In a brainstorming, it is very difficult to start.
The first solution will not appear.
What slogan will we choose for the new product?
There are no options.
What to do?
Right. Just to arrange the stream of thinking.
Our brain must get used to the creative situation.
Therefore, you call any concepts, what you see around.
For example, a chair, a table, a wall, a ceiling, a lamp, a red tie, a striped tie, a pen, a piece of paper.
We call it.
And we record it.
Everything is serious.
We record it in the protocol.
After a while, the name of what we see, just some vague concepts,
ideas will begin to appear.
Real ideas.
We continue to record them.
At first, the ideas are empty.
And you want to criticize.
In general, you want to criticize someone else's ideas.
You understand why I already talked about it.
Because someone else's idea is not mine.
Because if I understood that this idea is better, then it would already be mine.
Therefore, my cognitive picture of the world is that my idea is better.
Therefore, it is very difficult for us to accept someone else's idea.
Therefore, at this stage of discussion and brainstorming,
the most important thing is why the host should follow.
Not a single word of criticism, especially criticism, should be spoken.
Only the generation of ideas.
Only the release of information.
And no discussion.
Sometimes you have to be tough enough.
Because you really want to start right away.
To be honest, I myself always want to say what is wrong with any idea when I participate in a brainstorming.
But you need to restrain yourself.
Accept it as it is.
As a normal reaction of our psyche.
And consider that we will discuss it all later.
And discuss.
When you have recorded a sufficient number of ideas,
I am asked when to finish, especially in a brainstorming.
In fact, there will be a stage when ideas suddenly stop appearing.
You need to wait for it.
The second breath will come.
Write down more ideas.
And after a while you will stop yourself.
Most often it is half an hour.
Never more than an hour there is a brainstorming of new ideas.
Therefore, in any case, 20 minutes, half an hour,
we must tell you that the ideas have stopped.
But if they do not stop, continue to record further.
Continue to create until they go away.
Until they go away.
Until you feel this state.
That you are empty.
You gave everything that was in your right creative sphere.
You can say so.
And discussions.
All points of view are heard.
All points of view are conveyed.
At this stage, especially in a discussion,
it is very important to use the tool of paraphrasing.
That is, the understanding of what the interlocutor said.
The correct explanation.
If you describe his point of view with your own words,
will it remain the same?
This is very important.
Because often it seems to us that we understand what the interlocutor says.
But in fact, in these words we put in a completely different meaning.
Remember the tool of paraphrasing.
And only after you have understood,
after you have heard what you understood correctly,
after your ideas in the brainstorm have gone,
after you have recorded everything that was born in you,
everything that you said in public.
Only after that can you proceed to the discussion.
You know, it often happens that in the beginning of a brainstorming,
you want to criticize ideas.
But then it turns out that the best result of this brainstorming
will be the unification of several ideas at once.
Maybe even all.
You can combine ideas.
You can find a common solution.
In the same way, you can choose the best solution.
If a lot of people participate in a brainstorming or discussion,
it often happens that there is no principled limitation in the group.
There are even special tools that allow
to conduct it in very large audiences.
So, if a discussion is held in a large group, you can vote.
You can vote as we vote for the president.
Not in one round, but in two.
It is even more useful if there are many ideas and many proposals for discussions.
It will be easier for people to choose from a dozen, two or three,
which they liked, to vote for them.
And then, by a common decision, to find a five or three
in which you can vote only for one option.
And in this case, the best solution is chosen.
It is important here that there are dissatisfied people.
There are people who voted for not one of the solutions that he proposed.
But this is a law, and the leader should reassure such a person.
The law of the majority.
Indeed, the majority cannot be wrong.
If a person wants to add something,
wants to add something to this vote, he can speak.
And this can be done during a discussion.
If you do it before and between the votes,
then, according to a certain regulation, he can come out and say his yes and his no,
as in the English Parliament.
First, there is a point of view,
then a minute for, a minute against, a minute of his arguments are spoken,
and after that he votes.
You can use such a sequence.
It is necessary to hear all points of view,
so that there is no resentment, so that there is no opposition,
so that a person agrees to the next stage.
This is the protocol of the decision, the signing of the decision.
It is very important to consolidate the decision,
so that all participants in the discussion, all participants in the brainstorming,
agree with the decision.
Because otherwise it loses meaning.
This is the burning of unnecessary conflicts, unnecessary tense relations.
This is a condition, it is necessary to discuss it at the beginning,
when clarifying the subject, discussing the regulations and the like.
This must be done.
Therefore, if a person is heard, if he has spoken out his objections at the previous stage,
but they were not perceived and were not taken seriously,
it is his choice to propose, and it is the choice of others to reject his proposal.
Each person will be ready for the next decision,
if all the regulations and all the rules are observed.
Then the decision is taken.
Usually I do not advise to change it, because there are such tendencies,
that at first everything is accepted, then someone goes on a business trip,
or some people leave the business trip, those who came,
and everything begins to be reworked, to be redone.
Therefore, it is very important to conclude a written agreement,
at least in the form of a business meeting protocol.
And that's it. The decision is made, it is found,
quite quickly, the inner picture of the world has not affected everyone.
And the feeling of confidence in yourself has not suffered, because everyone is heard.
And of course you have a choice to make your decision or not to make your decision.
Thus, the emotional background is preserved.
But it is better to note this decision, at least a little, at least coffee,
or some sweets, or a croissant, if you discuss very serious creative moments.
It is necessary to note, to emotionally reinforce the creation of a new result.
Believe me, it will help you to work on it further,
and to smooth out some unclear moments, conflicts.
An interesting combination, right?
Indeed, we move from natural, comfortable business communication,
when you are in a favorable atmosphere for you,
when the emotional background is verified,
and all attention is paid to the information component.
But it does not always happen.
And we are dealing with the first form of complex communications,
complex business relations, these are conflicts.
Agree that this happens.
The first recipe for dealing with a conflict is to accept that it really exists.
What is a conflict?
I would like not to give a specific definition, a simple one,
what is a conflict in general.
A conflict, by and large, is, of course, a confrontation of sides.
A conflict is a situation when the sides cannot reach an agreement.
A conflict is a situation when the emotional background is falling.
But in fact, this is not a definition of a conflict.
Why? Because it is very important what kind of conflict it is, what its appearance is.
In fact, the main conflict, why it happens,
and it would be great if all conflicts were exactly like this,
but in reality, these are conflicts of interests.
Your interests collide.
They collide so seriously that it is difficult to find a common platform, a common space for interaction.
Two of your tasks do not overlap, do not combine.
Two of the results visible to you and your opponent.
Business result.
Great.
It would seem that the effective ways of interaction that we have discussed allow to achieve the result.
It would seem that it is important to delve into the opinion of the interlocutor,
to establish an emotional background and to find a third space combining these two results.
However, it happens that it would seem that the space is easy to find.
Well, not easy, but possible.
It would seem that everything is there, but nevertheless, the conflict, especially its emotional phase,
is only emphasized, only intensified.
And even a brain storm, which is effectively carried out,
still cannot remove all the negative emotional load.
Especially it is important in a team, in a working group, when the atmosphere becomes unbearable.
People can leave, or at least they stop working.
Who wants to work in a situation of constant tension?
All the internal resources of a person are spent on internal tension and protection from negative waves of conflict.
Why does this happen?
Why is there a conflict of interests that can be resolved by means of communication techniques?
Why do conflicts arise that are not resolved?
In fact, there are many answers.
But the most important one, which I want to pay special attention to today, is one.
This answer is that it is much more important to talk about internal conflicts than external ones.
Oddly enough, most conflicts that occur at work are not caused by external factors.
We believe that the causes of conflict are outside of us, in the situation that has arisen,
in the surrounding conditions that have arisen, in the informational space, in other words.
Or inside another person who is to blame, who does not want to understand us,
who does something wrong, not what suits us.
But in fact, most of the conflicts that we come across at home and at work are inside of us.
And if there were no conflicts inside of us, there would be none outside of us.
Outside there would be just interaction and space for choice.
To agree or to remain alone inside one's own universe.
To unite one's own universe.
Great! What is wrong in our universe? Why do we have this conflict inside of us?
In fact, internal conflict is a very interesting system.
How is internal conflict formed?
A difficult and negative situation arises for you, related to communication.
You experience negative emotions. You may experience resentment or aggression.
You may experience pain or humiliation.
The main emotion is negative and the main situation has no way out,
no concrete way out at the moment when you experience it.
But the situation goes on.
Negative emotions are gradually being smoothed out.
We say so in everyday life. They are gradually being smoothed out.
But in fact, they remain inside of us.
Psychologists say that it is like windows of Windows.
We open a window, then we open another window, then another one,
and in the end there are so many open windows that all the system's resources
go to support information in these open windows.
And there are no resources left for anything else.
The same is true for our psyche.
After opening one conflict, after ending communication with negative emotions,
we leave this open conflict inside of us.
The fact that it is gradually being forgotten, that negative emotions are gradually fading away,
says only one thing. This conflict is being submerged inside our subconscious.
It is being blocked by other windows.
But in fact, it remains. It remains to use the resources of our psyche.
The abundance of such unfinished conflicts is wasting our energy.
A person does not have the opportunity to actively, energetically develop himself,
to realize the business goals of his company.
What should he do? He should work through his conflicts.
He should not be afraid to experience them again and again.
It is interesting that you can experience it with a psychologist.
You can remember and resolve it on your own.
I offer you tools for this.
But in the same way, if this does not happen, if you leave these conflicts submerged,
the most interesting thing is that they not only waste your resources,
your emotions, your inner life forces,
but also your subconscious tries to resolve it,
tries to show it to you, even if you want to forget it.
Therefore, as soon as the situation of your communication begins to remind you
of the situation of that old, acute conflict,
it manifests itself again as a chronic disease.
You feel that you are in the same, very similar,
or at least approximately similar scenarios of conflict,
as if you play the same roles, or at least you play the same play,
even from different sides.
This means that this is your inner conflict.
The cause of the conflict is not in the surrounding details,
not in the information surrounding you, but inside you.
Therefore, please, this is the most important thing.
Believe me, when there is a difficult communication task in front of a top manager,
he invites me to help him in his decision.
Very often it happens that you only need to relieve the internal tension,
relieve the internal clutches and conflicts,
and there is no need to dictate the search for a solution to this task to a person,
because a leader and a successful businessman can solve any task,
including communication.
It's not a problem.
The main thing is to deal with the inner harmony and understanding
that your integrity is the key to the success of the integrity of the environment,
including the integrity of decision-making,
harmony in the relations around it,
and easy and effective communication.
It is much easier to solve your external conflicts of interest.
They go into the phase of discussion and search for new solutions.
It is interesting that harmony in you is projected on the surrounding people,
and you do not allow yourself to be involved in the conflict scenario.
It is enough that you have worked out your conflicts.
The surrounding people will not be able to play their games,
and you will really discuss the issue effectively.
Another very interesting option of complex communication is manipulation.
Manipulation training is often called the art of protection manipulation.
As if no one wants to manipulate, and everyone wants to protect themselves from manipulation.
But if everyone wants to protect themselves, then who manipulates us?
Let's be honest.
Sometimes during negotiations you would like to influence the understanding
and motives of your interlocutor, that is, the cognitive picture of the world.
You would like to do it imperceptibly and very simply.
You do not use big and complex skills and tools of effective communication.
Simply put, if you have manipulated, everything works out.
Manipulation has one big drawback.
When a person leaves your field of information and emotional field,
he remains with himself, he begins to digest this situation even subconsciously,
and gradually your instructions are washed out of his brain.
The very concept of manipulation is washed out.
Manipulation is a complete replacement of the interlocutor's goals with your goals.
You do it not aggressively, not pressing, but gradually and carefully.
For example, the Eastern parable.
Even one person can bring a horse to the well, but forty will not force her to drink.
So if you forcefully grab the horse's head and put it in the well,
she will start to choke, and after a while she will swallow the water.
This is a compulsion.
And if you give her a piece of salt or make her run around the circle with it,
she will want to drink after a while.
This is exactly what manipulation will be.
It is very important to understand that the horse will not lick the salt again next time.
Next time she will refuse to run around the circle,
because she will realize that this is done only to make her drink.
And if the horse does not intend to drink, she will not force her to drink next time.
Therefore, manipulation is a very short-term technique.
Remember this.
For long-term cooperation, the strategy of win-win, the unification of results, is important.
Nevertheless, let's analyze the basic types of manipulation.
Experienced specialists believe that there are two most effective types of manipulation.
The first manipulation is the sale of the future.
As we all know, many politicians use it very effectively.
Indeed, if you put in people's heads that there is a future much better than their own future,
it is very easy to manage them.
Do it this way and you will be happy.
Call us and you will get 1 million rubles.
Great!
A good way of manipulation.
The next way of manipulation, which is just as effective, is the use of weaknesses.
Everyone knows it.
And how to protect yourself from this?
It is quite obvious.
We know the effective ways of manipulation.
We know how to protect ourselves from them.
From the sale of the future, the protection of your own future.
The making of your own strategy of development.
The making of your own personal strategy of development.
Because prepare for the fact that in business communications,
you can be manipulated as a personality.
The making of your corporate strategy.
Understanding where you are going, what you are ready for, what you are not ready for.
If you have a clear understanding of your future,
then such manipulation, the offering of some super image of the future,
you are not in danger.
At least it will make you think.
To move to the meeting to think over it.
Manipulators do not like this kind of thing.
Because it leads to the absence of all their attempts to control you.
Next, the game of weaknesses.
For example, blackmail.
One of the examples of manipulation.
They know your weaknesses.
And public disclosure of weaknesses is the essence of blackmail.
What to do?
To know your weaknesses and to accept them as they are.
It is very interesting that there is a conversation about your weaknesses,
which is started by manipulators,
somewhere a little bit from the side, a little bit from afar.
And suddenly a sharp, quick question is thrown at you.
Such questions are called stressful.
For example, it can even concern some of your own physiology.
For example, you may be asked, why don't you use a deodorant?
It would seem a stupid question, insulting.
That's why you were offended, you are already blushed, you are in shock.
You are not ready for such a question.
You feel embarrassed, because it is indeed indecent and uncomfortable.
And at this moment, any ideas can come to your mind.
You are open to the influence of some kind of hypnosis.
Be careful.
Accept yourself as you are.
Accept all weaknesses as natural for you.
Accept your weaknesses as you need them, because in fact we have no weaknesses.
We have constructively demanded and not demanded qualities in our body.
All our weaknesses are those qualities that are not constructively demanded.
For example, communicability.
It is very important for a business coach and not for an archivist at all.
They will say about an archivist, he is some kind of a timid.
They will say about a business coach, he has effective communication skills.
If you feel that you are slowly being zombified, for example, we talked about a state of shock.
A very good tool is muscle tone.
You can even start waving your hands.
You can get up, walk sharply.
You can do something, distract yourself.
If there is no such opportunity, you can strain all the muscles of the body as much as possible.
This will also help to distract.
The main thing is not to give in to relaxation, a little sleepy, and to a restless state.
Because this is the most beneficial state for imposing your own ideas,
as manipulation, as hypnosis.
Classic and non-classic.
In other words, you know your future.
You know your weaknesses.
You are protected from manipulation.
Complex communication.
The last type.
Probably the most emotionally expensive.
These are tough negotiations.
I will not talk about how to have tough conversations.
There is an interesting test in the distribution tool.
Are you ready for tough negotiations?
Please go through it.
I will say this now to those who have not passed the test.
For whom are tough negotiations really tough?
Who does not feel their natural state?
It is then that negotiations are called tough.
These are the negotiations in which you emotionally burn out.
Which are emotionally expensive for us.
You experience negative emotions that have consequences after the negotiations.
Let's say it's hard for you to start the next one.
What to do to avoid this?
There are 5 mandatory points that need to be fulfilled.
I will tell you about them.
Look carefully.
If the negotiations have become tough for you,
then one of these points is not fulfilled.
The first point of the negotiation is especially important for women.
This is readiness for tough negotiations.
For a man, the situation is natural.
For a woman, it is strange.
Our genetic memory, our ancient brain,
does not understand this situation in relation to women.
Tough negotiations are a war that has already reached my home.
It's bad. You need to run away or pretend to be dead.
Then they will not notice.
Therefore, many women are put in a stupor in a situation of tough negotiations.
Or the desire to run away.
They try to avoid or try to postpone the meeting.
What to do?
Yes, tough negotiations exist.
Yes, they exist.
Yes, I am ready to act.
Yes, I am now in a manly and tough role of a duel.
Yes, it is so.
I am a strong woman and I can handle it.
The next point is a clear orientation to the result.
This is important.
We have been talking for a long time about emotional background,
information component.
It should be both.
At the beginning we said that business negotiations are aimed at the result.
But very often we want to please the interlocutor.
We want to make the result fulfilled.
We look very decent and worthy,
very nice people or very fair people,
or very moral people or very ethical people.
As you wish.
Each has its own qualities.
The point is that in the case of tough negotiations
you need to focus exclusively on the result.
No relations.
The person who talks to you is only a tool, not a personality.
Remember we talked about the tactics of interaction.
Here the role approach is very interesting and necessary.
Because you do not put the person in front of you as a personality.
You do not treat him as a personality.
You treat him as a specific tool in a specific role.
This is the only way to protect yourself from pressure.
There are options when you put only relations in the first place.
Then only relations.
Then no result.
You do everything to create effective relations and completely bend.
Your result is zero.
But the result of the relationship is 100%.
Let's move on.
To show activity.
An interesting point.
I often ask in training.
What do you do in case of an attack?
And most often I am told.
I run away.
Or I start hitting in the face.
Or I start calling the police.
A million ways.
Very few people ask.
Who attacks?
Me or the opponent?
In other words, in our moral society.
Christian society.
Muslim society.
In the Buddhist society, especially.
It is believed that aggression is not very human.
This is not a very good quality.
Therefore, in any case, I will not attack anyone.
Therefore, in a situation of tough negotiations, it is difficult for us to find out.
It is difficult to think through the attack tool, not the defense tool.
But remember, the attack is the best defense.
Therefore, be active.
Think about your active position.
For example.
A very effective tool for tough negotiations is to create an uncomfortable atmosphere for the second participant.
You will be put in a very uncomfortable chair.
Or they will start smoking, letting the smoke into your face.
Or you will sit on a draft.
Or with your eyes straight into the bright sun.
Something will be standing on the table in front of you, which will interfere with the review or some comfortable seat.
I was once at a negotiation, when a huge screen with news was working behind my back.
I could not see them, but the general director who communicated with me was watching them all the time.
What is best to do?
The best thing is to take the activity into your own hands.
Move unnecessary things off the table.
To sit down.
To say, you know, I want to sit down, I'm being blown away.
To ask to take a break in smoking.
And I then asked to turn off the screen.
I said, you know, let's look together, and then we will negotiate.
The next point is generally very important.
Why? Because most of us with higher education.
Many with two, many with three.
And for sure all of them studied at school for 10 years.
Therefore, it is very easy to put us in a situation, it was very significant for us, emotionally significant.
Remember I was talking about the scenarios and plays of our conflicts?
Here is a similar situation with exams.
We do not like them very much and are very nervous.
For us, this situation is very disturbing and uncomfortable.
And here we are at negotiations, it is very easy to put us in this scenario.
In front of you sits an examiner, and you answer him on the ticket.
You are introduced into this scenario, assessing you, assessing your actions or your qualities.
And you immediately begin to give in.
You start to suffer, because every next question you find the answer with difficulty.
Why with difficulty? Because there is a hesitation.
And there is an understanding that there is a correct answer, but you do not know the correct answer.
It is known by your examiner.
And you are not sure in everything you say, because you are not sure whether this answer says what the examiner needs.
A terrible situation.
But remember that you have already passed all the exams in your life.
You are ready and you are experts.
Maximally experts.
Otherwise, you would not be sitting in this place.
Therefore, everything you say is correct.
And the era of incorrect answers is already in the past.
When it is especially difficult.
When you are emotionally involved.
When you are being deceived.
Remember, in any films about good and bad heroes, the good one is often deceived.
He is being insulted and thus destroys the whole strategy of victory.
This is the last point.
If you do not want to be insulted or to be caught in a trap,
speaking in plain language,
be detached, play a role.
Remember, we talked about role tactics.
It's not you, but some role.
Choose the most effective role for the long-term situation.
But be detached personally.
You will become as if higher and from the side.
Or as if you walk around the table where the negotiations are taking place and listen.
You just play a role.
The insults that happen are not for you.
It's not about you.
It's about this role.
You will still get out.
And it's not you anymore, because you are not involved personally.
There are special tools that allow you to improve.
They are in our staff.
If all 5 conditions are met, your negotiations stop being tough.
Remember the negotiations in which you were emotionally involved.
Understand which of the points is failed.
Work it out before the next negotiations.
And everything will be as successful as possible.
We leave the difficult situations.
We have worked out the main types of difficult situations.
Now the situation is not less difficult, but it should be the most constructive.
In training, I say,
criticism is a feeling that makes you want to act.
It makes you feel up.
Your wings are spreading.
You are ready to do more, more effective and better.
I am told, it's not true.
We have never faced such criticism.
In this case, I answer, you just did not face criticism.
You faced criticism.
In fact, it is a very difficult communication task to give a competent feedback.
We can not talk for a long time.
But we will analyze the simplest example and the simplest tool.
It will allow you to accept any criticism and turn it into effective criticism.
And vice versa, to give effective criticism to your subordinates.
What is the fundamental difference between criticism and criticism?
Emotions are negative and positive.
Well, but in fact, there is a main difference in the essence of the content.
Criticism says that it is bad.
This report is not good anywhere.
The varnish on your nails is terrible.
And it pushes away the people around.
And criticism says that it needs to be added or changed.
You know, I saw a nail polish in a nearby store.
It suits you so much, I would recommend you to buy it.
This report is great.
I would like to add one more chapter.
And in this chapter, change, rearrange the accents.
If criticism is so much more effective and pleasant to criticize,
why is it that most often a person criticizes?
Why is it that very rarely the tool of criticism is used intuitively?
I can answer.
The thing is, again, inside of us.
A person likes to criticize exactly the person who criticizes himself for something.
Who sees a lot of negative qualities in himself.
And here's the strange thing.
Such a characteristic of criticism, he begins to see these negative qualities of others in everyone around him.
Remember the projection device.
And he begins to scold others for it.
And he scolds, of course, he does not show the path of development.
If he had seen his own development, he would not have this negative quality.
And then he would praise everyone around him.
So he tells everyone what he is really bad.
Therefore, if your leadership scolds you that you are late again,
think about it, it always comes in time.
And vice versa.
If you ever say something to someone that he is bad,
thereby you are writing off in your own shortcomings.
Be careful.
It is especially important when you have a very clear hierarchical difference.
And it is rigidly established.
Well, for example, you and your children.
It is easy to scold children, they can not answer anything back.
Therefore, just a good test.
What are your negative qualities?
Remember what you said yesterday.
And for what you scolded your children.
How to learn positive feedback?
Very simple.
You decide what is bad, but do not tell it to your subordinate or your colleague.
Tell them exactly what you would like to change and what you would like to add.
In this case, everyone will be happy.
A person will see new ways of development.
He will be supported by you.
His self-esteem will only increase, but it will not fall.
Work on it.
But do not sign up for your own shortcomings, you must agree.
We talked about everything that seemed important to me in establishing effective business relations.
This is a systematic approach to strategy.
These are different types of specific tactics in business relations.
This is a certain multilayeredness of business relations.
And this must be understood, otherwise everything loses its meaning.
This is emotional and informational content, their sequence.
This is how to master, how to manage these layers, informational and emotional.
What are the types of business relations?
The secret of success in each of them.
What are the difficulties in business relations?
How to solve them?
You probably found some of your vulnerabilities.
Determine the ways of development.
How to get away from these vulnerabilities, how to close them.
The most important thing in business relations is not to work with theory.
The most important thing in business relations is practice.
Practice and repeat the same tools.
See what works and what doesn't.
See what is your inner resistance to one or the other.
Help yourself.
At first in simple situations.
Reinforce yourself, praise yourself.
Go to difficult situations.
Practice is the key to your success in effective business relations.
Remember that now in the most successful psychological schools
the word leader is replaced by the word communicator.